Question 5.2.3. Question 3. Domain and Range.
For each of the following graphs. state the domain and range.
Parabola. vertex at (6. 4) opening down
Opening downward means the vertex is the maximum.
Domain: x in the real numbers. Range: y less than or equal to 4
Bounded curve (closed endpoints)
Look at the leftmost and rightmost x-values
and the lowest and highest y-values.
Domain and range depend on graph
endpoints — read coordinates carefully.
Rational function with asymptotes
Rational functions have asymptotes — the graph
approaches but never touches these lines.
At vertical asymptotes. exclude that x-value from the domain.
At horizontal asymptotes. exclude that y-value from the range.
Domain: x in the real numbers. x not equal to vertical asymptote.
Range: y in the real numbers. y not equal to horizontal asymptote.
IB exam tip: For rational functions. check both
vertical asymptotes (domain) and horizontal asymptotes (range).